docs/en/configuration/routing.md, before:

# Routing

## Examples

```shell
### Built-in outbounds: block, direct, must_rules

# must_rules means no redirecting DNS traffic to dae and continue to matching.
# For single rule, the difference between "direct" and "must_direct" is that "direct" will hijack and process DNS request
# (for traffic split use), but "must_direct" will not. "must_direct" is useful when there are traffic loops of DNS requests.
# "must_direct" can also be written as "direct(must)".
# Similarly, "must_groupname" is also supported to NOT hijack and process DNS traffic, which equals to "groupname(must)".

### fallback outbound
# If no rule matches, traffic will go through the outbound defined by fallback.
fallback: my_group

### Domain rule
domain(suffix: v2raya.org) -> my_group
# equals to domain(v2raya.org) -> my_group
domain(full: dns.google.com) -> my_group
domain(keyword: facebook) -> my_group
domain(regex: '\.goo.*\.com$') -> my_group
domain(geosite:category-ads) -> block
domain(geosite:cn)->direct

### Dest IP rule
dip(8.8.8.8) -> direct
dip(101.97.0.0/16) -> direct
dip(geoip:private) -> direct

### Source IP rule
sip(192.168.0.0/24) -> my_group
sip(192.168.50.0/24) -> direct

### Dest port rule
dport(80) -> direct
dport(10080-30000) -> direct

### Source port rule
sport(38563) -> direct
sport(10080-30000) -> direct

### Level 4 protocol rule:
l4proto(tcp) -> my_group
l4proto(udp) -> direct

### IP version rule:
ipversion(4) -> block
ipversion(6) -> ipv6_group

### Source MAC rule
mac('02:42:ac:11:00:02') -> direct

### Process Name rule (only support localhost process when binding to WAN)
pname(curl) -> direct

### Multiple domains rule
domain(keyword: google, suffix: www.twitter.com, suffix: v2raya.org) -> my_group
### Multiple IP rule
dip(geoip:cn, geoip:private) -> direct
dip(9.9.9.9, 223.5.5.5) -> direct
sip(192.168.0.6, 192.168.0.10, 192.168.0.15) -> direct

### 'And' rule
dip(geoip:cn) && dport(80) -> direct
dip(8.8.8.8) && l4proto(tcp) && dport(1-1023, 8443) -> my_group
dip(1.1.1.1) && sip(10.0.0.1, 172.20.0.0/16) -> direct

### 'Not' rule
!domain(geosite:google-scholar,
        geosite:category-scholar-!cn,
        geosite:category-scholar-cn
    ) -> my_group

### Little more complex rule
domain(geosite:geolocation-!cn) &&
    !domain(geosite:google-scholar,
            geosite:category-scholar-!cn,
            geosite:category-scholar-cn
        ) -> my_group

### Customized DAT file
domain(ext:"yourdatfile.dat:yourtag")->direct
dip(ext:"yourdatfile.dat:yourtag")->direct

### Set fwmark
# Mark is useful when you want to redirect traffic to specific interface (such as wireguard) or for other advanced uses.

# An example of redirecting Disney traffic to wg0 is given here.
# You need set ip rule and ip table like this:
# 1. Set all traffic with mark 0x800/0x800 to use route table 1145:
# >> ip rule add fwmark 0x800/0x800 table 1145
# >> ip -6 rule add fwmark 0x800/0x800 table 1145
# 2. Set default route of route table 1145:
# >> ip route add default dev wg0 scope global table 1145
# >> ip -6 route add default dev wg0 scope global table 1145
# Notice that interface wg0, mark 0x800, table 1145 can be set by preferences, but cannot conflict.
# 3. Set routing rules in dae config file.
domain(geosite:disney) -> direct(mark: 0x800)

### Must rules
# For following rules, DNS requests will be forcibly redirected to dae except from mosdns.
# Different from must_direct/must_my_group, traffic from mosdns will continue to match other rules.
pname(mosdns) -> must_rules
ip(geoip:cn) -> direct
domain(geosite:cn) -> direct
fallback: my_group
```

Commit message:

feat: support ToS routing rule (#292)

docs/en/configuration/routing.md, after:

# Routing

## Examples

```shell
### Built-in outbounds: block, direct, must_rules

# must_rules means no redirecting DNS traffic to dae and continue to matching.
# For single rule, the difference between "direct" and "must_direct" is that "direct" will hijack and process DNS request
# (for traffic split use), but "must_direct" will not. "must_direct" is useful when there are traffic loops of DNS requests.
# "must_direct" can also be written as "direct(must)".
# Similarly, "must_groupname" is also supported to NOT hijack and process DNS traffic, which equals to "groupname(must)".

### fallback outbound
# If no rule matches, traffic will go through the outbound defined by fallback.
fallback: my_group

### Domain rule
domain(suffix: v2raya.org) -> my_group
# equals to domain(v2raya.org) -> my_group
domain(full: dns.google.com) -> my_group
domain(keyword: facebook) -> my_group
domain(regex: '\.goo.*\.com$') -> my_group
domain(geosite:category-ads) -> block
domain(geosite:cn)->direct

### Dest IP rule
dip(8.8.8.8) -> direct
dip(101.97.0.0/16) -> direct
dip(geoip:private) -> direct

### Source IP rule
sip(192.168.0.0/24) -> my_group
sip(192.168.50.0/24) -> direct

### Dest port rule
dport(80) -> direct
dport(10080-30000) -> direct

### Source port rule
sport(38563) -> direct
sport(10080-30000) -> direct

### Level 4 protocol rule:
l4proto(tcp) -> my_group
l4proto(udp) -> direct

### IP version rule:
ipversion(4) -> block
ipversion(6) -> ipv6_group

### Source MAC rule
mac('02:42:ac:11:00:02') -> direct

### Process Name rule (only support localhost process when binding to WAN)
pname(curl) -> direct

### ToS rule (match ToS/DSCP; is useful for BT bypass)
tos(4) -> direct

### Multiple domains rule
domain(keyword: google, suffix: www.twitter.com, suffix: v2raya.org) -> my_group
### Multiple IP rule
dip(geoip:cn, geoip:private) -> direct
dip(9.9.9.9, 223.5.5.5) -> direct
sip(192.168.0.6, 192.168.0.10, 192.168.0.15) -> direct

### 'And' rule
dip(geoip:cn) && dport(80) -> direct
dip(8.8.8.8) && l4proto(tcp) && dport(1-1023, 8443) -> my_group
dip(1.1.1.1) && sip(10.0.0.1, 172.20.0.0/16) -> direct

### 'Not' rule
!domain(geosite:google-scholar,
        geosite:category-scholar-!cn,
        geosite:category-scholar-cn
    ) -> my_group

### Little more complex rule
domain(geosite:geolocation-!cn) &&
    !domain(geosite:google-scholar,
            geosite:category-scholar-!cn,
            geosite:category-scholar-cn
        ) -> my_group

### Customized DAT file
domain(ext:"yourdatfile.dat:yourtag")->direct
dip(ext:"yourdatfile.dat:yourtag")->direct

### Set fwmark
# Mark is useful when you want to redirect traffic to specific interface (such as wireguard) or for other advanced uses.

# An example of redirecting Disney traffic to wg0 is given here.
# You need set ip rule and ip table like this:
# 1. Set all traffic with mark 0x800/0x800 to use route table 1145:
# >> ip rule add fwmark 0x800/0x800 table 1145
# >> ip -6 rule add fwmark 0x800/0x800 table 1145
# 2. Set default route of route table 1145:
# >> ip route add default dev wg0 scope global table 1145
# >> ip -6 route add default dev wg0 scope global table 1145
# Notice that interface wg0, mark 0x800, table 1145 can be set by preferences, but cannot conflict.
# 3. Set routing rules in dae config file.
domain(geosite:disney) -> direct(mark: 0x800)

### Must rules
# For following rules, DNS requests will be forcibly redirected to dae except from mosdns.
# Different from must_direct/must_my_group, traffic from mosdns will continue to match other rules.
pname(mosdns) -> must_rules
ip(geoip:cn) -> direct
domain(geosite:cn) -> direct
fallback: my_group
```
